Homework 2
================

*Note: This homework uses the `tidyverse` and `dplyr` libraries.*

## Problem 1

The `nyctransit_df` dataset (32 columns x 1868 rows) was created based
on the *“NYC_Transit_Subway_Entrance_And_Exit_Data.csv”* file.

After reading the `nyctransit_df` dataset and taking a look at its 32
variables with `summary(nyctransit_df)`, I applied the snake case
convention to the variable names using `clean_names` from the `janitor`
package.

Using the `select()` function, I selected my variables of interest and
converted the `entry` variable in this dataset from character to a
logical variable.

The resulting `nyctransit_q1` dataset (19 columns x 1868 rows) has 19
variables (11 characters, 2 logicals, and 6 doubles).

#### The 19 Variables in `nyctransit_q1`

*Note: To see the categories in some of the character and double
variables, I transformed them into factors and created the
`nyctransit_fc` dataset. Then I used the `levels(pull())` function to
look at the categories.*

In the `nyvtransit_q1` dataset, the 11 character variables include:
`line` (36 different lines), `station_name` (356 different names),
`route1` to `route7`, which contains specific trains that take each
route, `entrance_type` (Door, Easement, Elevator, Escalator, Ramp,
Stair, Walkway), and `vending` (y/n).

The 2 logical variables are `ada`, which indicates whether it is ADA
compliant, and `entry`.

The 6 double variables are `station_latitude`, `station_longitude`, and
`route8` to `route11`. The variables for routes 8 to 11 also contains
data on specific train numbers that use those routes.

The data in `nyctransit_q1` is not tidy. For example, Routes 8 to 11
were entered as doubles but specific train numbers are entered in these
columns. Similarly, character variables such as `line`, `entrance_type`,
`vending`, and `route1` to `route7` are categorical variables and could
be converted to factors.

#### Problem 1 Question Answers

There are 356 distinct stations. 73 out of the 356 stations are ADA
compliant. Of the 36 distinct stations that have entrances/exits without
vending, 16 (44.44%) allow entrance.
